# DR3 Repo

The repository holds a C++ library that enables the development of code that prioritizes speed.
There are numerous functionalities provided by the library that can enhance the efficiency of C++ code, such as:
- Automatic vectorization
- Memory prefetching
- Function inlining
- Loop unrolling
- Function overloading

Automatic vectorization that automatically transforms loops into vectorized code. Automatic vectorization is a powerful technique that can significantly improve the performance of code that is heavily dependent on arithmetic operations.
Memory prefetching brings data into memory before it is needed.
Function inlining replaces a function call with the function's body and improves performance by eliminating the overhead of function calls.
Loop unrolling repeats the body of a loop a fixed number of times and improves performance by reducing the number of branch instructions and allowing the CPU to execute more instructions in parallel.
Function overloading makes the code more concise by eliminating the need to create separate functions for different types of data, improves readability by making it easier to see the other implementations of a function, and is more efficient by allowing the compiler to generate more specialized code for different types of data.

For C++ programmers seeking to optimize their code, the DR3 repository is an excellent asset. Its user-friendly interface and various features can significantly enhance the performance of C++ code.

## Code Details

* The code is written in C++17 or higher.
* The code builds on gcc and msvc compilers.
* The code has been tested on Linux and Windows platforms
* The code uses CMake cross-platform build automation.
* The code has examples and test cases
* The code is open source and licensed under the MIT license.

Suport for other platforms and compilers can easily be added since the library uses standard C++ without any dependencies except the Google Test framework.

## How to Use

To use the DR3 repo, simply clone the repo to your local machine and include the `dr3.h` header file in your code. You can then use the library's functions to significantly improve the performance of your code.

To get full use of the repo, you need a modern processor which has AVX512 instructions. 
If your processor only has  AVX2, you need to change target instruction sets in the projects to AVX2, and don’t generate AVX512
In the projects because your machine wont run them.
 
The projects build with clang, IC2022 and VS2019.
Select x64 and solution configuration  for IC2022, release, debug and clang

Getting started shows some example use cases for vectors filters and views, together with an experimental
vectorised forward AAD.

Accumulate example shows some of the use cases given in the cppCon2022 talk.
Additionally it gives an example of error correction in Khan accumulation

The example build an run with VS2019, clang and intel compilers. The target instruction set 
generated by the framework can be changed by changing the namespace. These are double and float
types  VecDb is pair of doubles. Uncomment the namespace ande build the example.

//using namespace DRC::VecDb;
//using namespace DRC::VecD2D;  //sse2   double
using namespace DRC::VecD4D;	//avx2   double
//using namespace DRC::VecF8F;	// avx2  float
//using namespace DRC::VecD8D;  //avx512 double
//using namespace DRC::VecF16F; //avx512   float

For a machine supporting AVX512 ensure all the VC projects are set to use  enhanced instruction set must be set 
ConfigurationProperties C++/Instruction Set /Enable Enhanced Instruction Set to ARCh:AVX512
If your machine doesnt support this, reduce to AVX2 or SSE2, and dont select a namespace in the code requiring more advanced instruction
sets.

Uncomment one of the Using namespace lines  select the instruction set that you wish to run  
Those ending in F have float type as underlying, those ending with D have a double.

The project is set to compile using the AVX512  enhanced instruction set. The namespace selection 
choses the type of the intrinsics that are used to instantiate lambdas.

If your hardware does not support AVX512 chose the next level down AVX2 and avoid using namespaces 
DRC::VecD8D or DRC::VecF16F which will cause generation of code with instructions that your computer doesn't support. 

check device manager/processor to determine what processor you have and check against web site 
https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/123550/intel-xeon-silver-4114-processor-13-75m-cache-2-20-ghz.html
or
https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/products/details/processors/xeon/scalable.html

The getting started project shows the useage of vectors lambdas and filters

The accumulateExample builds performance examples covered in the cppCon2022 talk. 
They give the user the chance to change between ICC,clang and VS2019 builds but changing the
instruction set used via the using declaration.

The inverseCumNormalExample  gives the performance example shown in cppCon2022, although there might be some slight
perfrormance regression on one or two of the examples.   Its instructive to run the examples after building with the
different compilers and  chosing different instruction sets for the Lambdas (via namespace).

The AVX512Dance function runs a routine which finds the max value in in array, using AVX2 amnd AVX512. By monitoring the
power useage using something like openhardware monitor its possible to see that using the AVX512 instructions, use less
energy to do the compute than teh AVX2 ( on this silver4114 xeon).

VectorTest is a selection of tests using googletest.  
The main library is  Vectorisation.  This refrence a local copy of the VCL2 library.  It has a slight change to enable
VCL2 to be used with the intel IC2022 compiler.


# AVX Architectures in Intel Processors

## AVX

* AVX is a 256-bit instruction set extension that was introduced in the Intel Sandy Bridge processor family.
* AVX provides new instructions for performing arithmetic operations on 256-bit vectors of data.

## AVX2

* AVX2 is a 256-bit instruction set extension that was introduced in the Intel Haswell processor family.
* AVX2 adds new instructions for performing arithmetic operations on 256-bit vectors of data, as well as new instructions for performing integer and floating-point conversions.

## AVX512

* AVX512 is a 512-bit instruction set extension that was introduced in the Intel Knights Landing processor family.
* AVX512 provides new instructions for performing arithmetic operations on 512-bit vectors of data, as well as new instructions for performing integer and floating-point conversions.

## Compatibility

* AVX, AVX2, and AVX512 are all backward compatible with each other.
* This means that code that is compiled for one AVX instruction set can be run on a processor that supports a later AVX instruction set.

## Performance

* AVX, AVX2, and AVX512 can significantly improve the performance of code that is heavily dependent on arithmetic operations.
